# DiaControl
Prediction risk of re-hospitalization in diabetic patients
## Table of Content:
1)	Motivation and solution - Decrease the potentially preventable hospital stays by chornic diabetes control.
2)	Getting the data - Fliter the Diabetes 130-US hospitals for years 1999-2008 Data Set to fit my motivation.
3)	Data preprocessing and feature engineering – Fill missing data, interpretate ICD code and feature selection.
4)	Exploratory data analysis – some insights.
5)	Make predictions – Whether or not a diabetic patient will have further hospital stay.
6)	Conclusions and discussions.
## 1.	Motivation and solution - Decrease the potentially preventable hospital stays by chornic diabetes control.
Every year, trillions of dollars have been spent on hospital care in united states. However, among this huge amount of money, aobut 10% of it should probably be avoided. Among the potential preventable hospital stay, nearly about 2/3 are caused by chornic diseases. This is quite intutive that chornic diseases persit for longer time and therefore is more difficult to be controlled. In all, if both the health providers and the patients can pay moreattention on chronic disease control like setting more regular checks, huge amount of money and lives can be saved.
There is a lot of information we can infer from the electronic health records(EHR) , I estimated the time and cost of publications in certain filed, and even identified the publications which did not produce what they promised. At last, I compared several classifiers to predict whether or not a diabetic patient will have further hospital stay. Similar strategy can be applied to other diseases.
## 2.	Getting the data - Mapping publications to grants.
Diabetes 130-US hospitals for years 1999-2008 Data Set is publicly accessible from [UCI](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/diabetes+130-us+hospitals+for+years+1999-2008) machine learning repository. The related information such as grant publications and abstracts are provided. However, detailed publication information such as abstract is lacking, which can be found in NIH database - [Pubmed](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/). Thus, I used a public API to map publications to grants. More specifically, the [_Entrez_](http://biopython.org/DIST/docs/api/Bio.Entrez-module.html) package from Biopython was used to search publications linked to each Grant-ID. Pulication information such as PMID, PubDate, PubTypeList, FullJournalName and Abstract were extracted. All the information except for abstract were combined into one [csv](https://github.com/lilyvalley/Tracking-NIH-Grants/blob/master/file/FY2010_merge_all%20copy.csv) file. Grant and publication abstracts were extracted into a separate [csv](https://github.com/lilyvalley/Tracking-NIH-Grants/blob/master/file/Abstract.csv) file. Due to the time-consuming process of fetching data from NCBI, only 2010 grant data was used in the current study. Ipython notebook used to scraping publication data can be found [here](https://github.com/lilyvalley/Tracking-NIH-Grants/blob/master/ipython_notebook/Mapping%20grant%20to%20publication.ipynb).
